

 
 
 
1 
 
 
Allianz Comprehensive Coverage 
 
This  Comprehensive  Coverage  provides  a  package  of our most  popular  product  features  and  benefits  to  meet  the  needs  of your all-
inclusive  vacation  plans. Whether you are  taking  a  weeklong  safari  to  Africa,  a  summer  vacation  with  the  kids  or  an  exciting  Caribbean 
cruise, this plan will provide you with coverage for your travel plans, your healthcare, and your personal belongings. 
 
Benefits per Insured Benefit Maximums 
Trip Cancellation Up to $20,000 Canadian 
Trip Interruption Up to $20,000 Canadian 
Trip Delay $300 Canadian/Day – Maximum 2 Days 
Emergency Medical and Dental Coverage Up to $5,000,000 Canadian (overall policy maximum) 
Emergency Medical Transportation Included in overall policy maximum 
Vehicle Return $2,000 Canadian 
Repatriation of Remains $5,000 Canadian 
Accommodations and Meals $150 Canadian/Day – Maximum 10 days 
Baggage Coverage $1,000 Canadian 
Baggage Delay $200 Canadian 
24-Hour Emergency Travel Assistance Included  
 
Your Comprehensive  Coverage  provides  insurance  for  travellers  who  are  age 64 or younger  at  the  time  the coverage  is 
purchased.  
 
This plan will provide you with coverage for the length of your trip to a maximum period of up to 30 days. Your departure date and your 
return date are both counted and included as separate days when determining the duration of coverage. 
 
For complete information, please read the Policy of Insurance below. 
 
Policy of Insurance 
 
This product is underwritten by CUMIS General Insurance Company (herein called “we”, “us”, “our”), a member of the Co-operators group 
of companies, and administered by Allianz Global Assistance.  Allianz Global Assistance is a registered business name of AZGA Service 
Canada Inc. and AZGA Insurance Agency Canada Ltd.  AZGA Service Canada Inc. is a member of the Allianz Group. For purposes of the 
Insurance Companies Act (Canada), this document was issued in the course of CUMIS General Insurance Company's insurance business 
in Canada. 
 
IMPORTANT NOTICE- PLEASE READ CAREFULLY 
 
We have issued this Policy of Insurance to the person(s) named on the Declaration Page (herein called “you” or “your”). 
If you believe that the Declaration Page we sent you is incorrect, please contact Allianz Global Assistance immediately at the phone 
number(s) listed on your Declaration Page. 
 
This Policy and your Declaration Page describe your insurance and its terms and conditions, which may limit benefits and amounts payable 
to you. Please read the Policy carefully to understand the conditions of all coverage for which you have paid a premium.  
 
Be sure to take this document, your Declaration Page and your receipt with you on your trip. 
 
This Policy contains a number of exclusions and limitations including a Pre-Existing Condition Exclusion, which may apply to a 
medical condition and/or symptoms that existed prior to your trip, please take time to read it before leaving on your trip. 
 
PLEASE READ YOUR POLICY OF INSURANCE CAREFULLY BEFORE YOU TRAVEL 
 

 
 
 
2 
 
IF YOU ARE IN NEED OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL OR DENTAL CARE WHILE TRAVELLING, YOU  
MUST CALL ALLIANZ GLOBAL ASSISTANCE AT ONE OF THE NUMBERS LISTED ON YOUR 
DECLARATION PAGE BEFORE SEEKING TREATMENT. 
 
Allianz Global Assistance is here to help you 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. 
 
Please have the following information ready for the Allianz Global Assistance representative when you call: 
 
 your name and Policy Number (per your Declaration Page), and 
 your location and local phone number. 
 
Please  note  that  Emergency  Medical  insurance  provides  for  a  reduction  of  benefits  if you do  not  call  before  seeking treatment.  If your 
medical  condition prevents you from  calling  before  seeking emergency treatment, you must  call Allianz  Global  Assistance as  soon  as 
medically possible. As an alternative, someone else may call on your behalf. 
 
 
 
Right to Examine this Insurance 
 
If you notify us that you are not completely satisfied with your purchased plan within 10 days of the date of issue of this Policy of Insurance 
as indicated on your Declaration Page, we will provide a full refund if you have not already departed on your trip or filed a claim. 
Refunds are only available when Allianz Global Assistance receives your request for a refund before your departure date. 
 
Insured benefits under this Policy of Insurance include: 
 
 Trip Cancellation/ Trip Interruption and Trip Delay 
 Emergency Medical and Dental Expenses 
 Emergency Medical Transportation     
 Baggage Coverage    
 Baggage Delay 
 
Please refer to your Declaration Page to determine which coverage you purchased and the corresponding maximum amounts of coverage.  
 
What risks are insured? 
 
This insurance covers the reasonable and customary, medically necessary expenses for medical care or surgery that is required as part of 
the emergency treatment arising  from  a medical  condition that  occurs  while you are  travelling  outside  of your province  of  residence and 
protects you against situations or losses that result from sudden and unexpected conditions or events.  We reserve the right, in our sole 
discretion, to reject applications for coverage. 
 
These insurance benefits do not cover conditions or events that, on the date of purchase, are either known to you or are likely to 
occur. 
 
The Emergency Medical and Dental insurance covers only the medically necessary expenses you incur once you have left your province of 
residence.  In  addition,  the  Emergency  Medical  and  Dental  insurance  covers  only  the  expenses  in  excess  of  those  covered  under your 
government health insurance plan and by any other insurance or benefit plan under which you are covered.  
 
What must you do in a medical emergency? 
 
You must contact Allianz Global Assistance before seeking emergency treatment. Failure to call Allianz Global Assistance may result in a 
reduction to the amount reimbursed, or no reimbursement, for the expenses you have incurred.  In addition, the medical advisors of Allianz 
Global Assistance must approve all medical procedures (including cardiac procedures and cardiac catheterisation) in advance. 
 
When you contact Allianz  Global  Assistance,  they  will  refer you or  may  transfer your  call, when  medically  appropriate,  to  an  accredited 
medical service provider within a network.  
 
Allianz  Global  Assistance may  also  make  a  request  for  the  medical  service  provider  to  bill  the  medical  expenses  covered  under  this 
insurance  directly  to us instead of  to you. We will  guarantee  payments  up  to  the  amounts  provided  under  this Policy of  Insurance,  if 
needed, to secure your medically necessary admission to a hospital. 

 
 
 
3 
In this Policy, certain terms have defined meanings. Those defined terms are as indicated on your Declaration Page, 
or as below in the section titled “Definitions”, and appear throughout this Policy in italics. 
 
Definitions 
 
Accident/Accidental - a  sudden,  unexpected,  unintended, 
unforeseeable  external  event,  occurring  during  an  insured trip, 
arising  wholly  from accidental means,  which  independently  of 
any other cause, causes injury. 
 
Accidental  Bodily  Injury - a bodily injury caused  by  an 
accident of   external   origin   occurring   during   the   period   of 
insurance and  being  the  direct  and  independent  cause  of  the 
loss. 
 
Allianz  Global  Assistance – Allianz  Global  Assistance, our 
administrator  for  assistance  and  claims  services  under  this 
Policy. 
 
Baggage - luggage and personal possessions, whether owned, 
borrowed or rented and taken by you on your trip.   
 
Children - unmarried  persons  who  are  dependent  on you for 
support and are: 
 
 under 21 years of age; or 
 under 26 years of age if a full-time student; or 
 mentally or  physically  incapable  of  self-support,  and 
became so as a dependent child, and over 20 years of 
age. 
 
Common  Carrier - any  land,  air or  water  conveyance  for 
regular   passenger   service,   which   is   fully   licensed   to   carry 
passengers  for  compensation  or  hire  and  which  undertakes  to 
carry  all  persons  indifferently as  to  who  may  apply  for  passage, 
so  long  as  there  is  room and  there  are  no  legal  grounds  for 
refusal. 
 
Contamination - the contamination or  poisoning  of people  by 
nuclear  and/or  chemical  and/or  biological  substances,  which 
causes illness and/or death. 
 
Coverage  Period - the  time  insurance  is  in  effect,  beginning 
on the effective date and ending on the expiry date.   
 
Covered  Service - a  service  or  supply,  specified  herein,  for 
which we provide benefits under this insurance. 
 
Departure Date - the date on which you are scheduled to start 
your trip as shown on the Declaration Page (using the local time 
at your Canadian address). 
 
Departure  Point - the  city within  Canada, from  which you 
depart on your trip on your departure date.  
 
Effective  Date - has  the  following  meaning  depending  on  the 
coverage and benefit: 
 
 Trip   Cancellation   and   Interruption   Coverage - 
effective  date means  00:01  on  the  day  after your 
premium payment is received by us, (using local time at 
your Canadian address). 
 
 Emergency  Medical  and  Dental  Coverage - effective 
date means the time and date on which you leave your 
province,  or  territory  of  residence (using  local  time  at 
your Canadian address). 
 
 All other coverage - effective date means 00:01 on the 
day you are  scheduled  to  leave your departure  point 
(using local time at your Canadian address).  
 
Emergency - an  unforeseen  event  that  occurs  during  the 
period of insurance and makes it necessary to receive immediate 
treatment from a licensed physician or to be hospitalized. 
 
Emergency   Dental   Care/Treatment - the   services or 
supplies provided by a licensed dentist, hospital or other licensed 
provider that are immediately and medically necessary. 
 
Emergency  Medical  Care/Treatment - the  services  or 
supplies  provided  by  a  licensed physician, hospital or  other 
licensed    provider    (licensed    physiotherapist, chiropractor, 
chiropodist, podiatrist or osteopath) that are medically necessary 
to treat any illness or other covered condition that is acute (onset 
is  sudden  and  unexpected)  and  which  cannot  be  reasonably 
delayed until you return   to your home   country without 
endangering your health. 
 
Essential  Items - means  necessary  clothing  and/or  toiletries 
purchased during the time period in which checked baggage has 
been delayed. 
 
Expiry Date - the date on which your coverage ends under this 
insurance as shown on your Declaration Page. 
 
Family  Member - includes your spouse;  parents; children, 
including children who  are,  or  are  in  the  process  of  becoming 
adopted;  siblings;  grandparents  or  grandchildren;  step-parent; 
step-children;  or  step-sibling;  in-laws  (parent,  son,  daughter, 
brother  or  sister,  grandparents);  aunt;  uncle;  niece;  nephew; 
legal guardian; or ward; whether or not they travel with you. 
 
Government Health Insurance Plan - the health insurance 
coverage  that  Canadian  provincial and  territorial  governments 
provide for their residents. 
 
Hospital - an establishment that is licensed as a hospital and is 
operated   for   the   care   and treatment of inpatients,   has   a 
registered  nurse  always  on  duty,  and  has  a  laboratory  and  an 
operating  room on  the  premises  or  in  facilities  controlled  by  the 
hospital. Hospital does not mean any establishment used mainly 
as  a  clinic,  extended  or  palliative  care  facility,  rehabilitation 
facility, addiction treatment centre, convalescent, rest or nursing 
home, home for the aged, or health spa. 
 
Illness - a  sickness,  infirmity  or  disease  occurring  during  the 
insured trip that requires emergency medical care, which did not 
occur prior to the effective date. 
 
Immediate  Family - means your  spouse;  parent; children 
(including all natural or adopted children); your sibling; your step-
parents, step-children, your grandparent or grandchild. 
 

 
 
 
4 
Injury - bodily injury occurring  during  an  insured trip,  resulting 
directly and independently of all other causes, from an accident. 
 
Inpatient - a  person  treated  as  a  registered  bed  patient  in  a 
hospital or other facility and for whom a room and board charge 
is made. 
 
Medical Condition - an accidental bodily injury or sickness (or 
a condition  related  to  that accidental  bodily  injury or  sickness), 
including   disease,   acute   psychosis   and   complications   of 
pregnancy occurring within the first 31 weeks of pregnancy. 
 
Medically Necessary or Medical Necessity - the services 
or  supplies  provided  by  a hospital, physician,  dentist,  or  other 
licensed provider that are required to identify or treat your illness 
or injury and that we determine are:  
 
 consistent   with   the   symptoms   or   diagnosis   and 
treatment of your condition, illness, ailment or injury; 
 appropriate  with  regard  to  standards  of  good  medical 
practice;  
 not  solely  for  the  convenience  of you,  a physician or 
other provider; 
 the most appropriate supply or level of service that can 
be safely provided to you.  
 
When  applied  to  the  care  of  an inpatient,  it  further  means  that 
your medical  symptoms  or  condition  requires  that  the  services 
cannot be safely provided to you as an outpatient. 
 
Mountain  Climbing - the  ascent  or  descent  of  a  mountain 
requiring the use of specialized equipment, including crampons, 
pick-axes,  anchors,  bolts,  carabineers  and  lead  or  top-rope 
anchoring equipment. 
 
Outpatient - someone  who  receives  a covered  service while 
not an inpatient. 
 
Physician - a person (other than an insured) who is not related 
to the insured by blood or marriage who is licensed to prescribe 
drugs  and  administer  medical treatment (within  the  scope  of 
such  license)  at  the location where  the treatment is  provided.  A 
physician does   not   include   a   naturopath,   a   herbalist   or   a 
homeopath.  
 
Policy - the entire Policy of insurance document containing the 
terms and conditions of this insurance and issued to you by us. 
 
Prepaid - paid prior to your departure date. 
 
Prescription  Drug - a  drug  or  medicine  that  can  only  be 
issued  upon  the  prescription  of  a physician or  licensed  dentist 
and is dispensed by a licensed pharmacist.  
 
Professional - engaged  in  a  specified  activity  as your main 
paid occupation. 
 
Reasonable  and  Customary  Charge - a  charge  in  an 
amount consistently made by other vendors/providers for a given 
service   in   the   same   geographic   area,   which   reflects   the 
complexity  of  the  service  taking  into  account  availability  of 
experienced personnel, availability of services or parts.  
 
Return Date - the date on which you are scheduled to return to 
your departure point as shown on your Declaration Page (using 
the local time at your Canadian address).  
 
Sanction - any  business  or  activity  that  would  violate  any 
Canadian  or  any  other  applicable  national  economic  or  trade 
sanction law or regulations. 
 
Spouse - the person who is: 
 legally married or in a legal civil union with you; or 
 is  living  with you in  a  conjugal  relationship  and  is 
publicly represented  as your spouse or your domestic 
partner in the community in which you reside. You may 
only have 1 spouse for the purposes of this insurance. 
 
Stable - any medical  condition or  related  condition  (including 
any  heart  condition  or  lung  condition)  for  which  all  the  following 
statements   for   that medical   condition or   related   condition 
(including any heart or any lung condition) are true: 
 
 there   has   been   no   new treatment or   prescribed 
medication; 
 there  has  been  no  change  in treatment or  change  in 
prescribed    medication    (including    the    amount    of 
medication to be taken, how often it is taken, the type of 
medication or change in treatment frequency or type); 
 there   has   been   no   new   symptom,   more   frequent 
symptom or more severe symptom; 
 there have been no test results showing deterioration; 
 there   has   been   no   hospitalization   or   referral   to   a 
specialist  (made  or  recommended)  or  the  result  of 
further investigations has not yet been completed. 
 
Terrorism  or  Act  of  Terrorism - an  act  including,  but  not 
limited to, the use of force or violence and/or the threat thereof, 
including  hijacking  or  kidnapping,  of  an  individual  or  group  in 
order   to   intimidate   or   terrorize   any   government,   group, 
association   or   the   general   public,   for   religious,   political   or 
ideological reasons or ends, and does not include any act of war 
(whether declared or not), act of foreign enemies or rebellion. 
 
Travel  Advisory - a  formal  written  notice  issued  by  the 
Canadian  government  to  advise  travellers  not  to enter  a  foreign 
country  or  a  given  region  in  that  country.  It  does  not  include 
travel information reports. 
 
Travelling Companion - a person with whom you are sharing 
travel arrangements and prepaid accommodation. 
 
Travel  Period - the  period  of  time  from your departure  from 
your departure  point up  to  and  including your return  date,  as 
shown on your Declaration Page. 
 
Treatment - the medical  advice,  care  and/or  service  provided 
by  a physician.  This  includes,  but  is  not  limited  to,  diagnostic 
measures  and prescription  drugs (including  pills  and  inhaled  or 
injected  medications).  It  does  not  include  check-ups  or  cases 
where you have no specific symptoms. 
 
Trip - a  period  of  round-trip travel  to  a  destination  outside  of 
your province of residence that is not for the purpose of obtaining 
health care or treatment of any kind.  
 

 
 
 
5 
We,  Us  and  Our - refers to CUMIS   General   Insurance 
Company. 
 
You and Your - refer to all persons listed on your Declaration 
Page  under  the plan  purchased  when  the  required  insurance 
premium has been paid for that person, before the effective date. 
 
What Do You Need to Know? 
 
Are you eligible for coverage? 
 
To be eligible for any insurance coverage you must: 
 
 be a Canadian citizen or be a permanent or temporary 
resident of Canada; 
 
 be  covered  under your government  health  insurance 
plan for the full duration of your coverage period;  
 
 have your application  for  coverage  accepted  and  the 
entire  required  premium  paid  within  7  days  of  booking 
your travel arrangements; 
 
 at  the  time  this  insurance  is  purchased,  be  age  64  or 
younger; and 
 
 be travelling no longer than 30 consecutive days. 
 
PLEASE  NOTE: You must  meet  all  of  the  above  eligibility 
requirements to be insured under this Policy.   
 
How do you become insured? 
 
You become  insured  and  this Policy becomes  an  insurance 
contract: 
 
 when you are  named  on your completed  insurance 
application and named on your Declaration Page; and 
 
 upon  payment  of  the  required  premium  on  or  before 
your effective date. 
 
When does your insurance start? 
 
Your insurance starts on the effective date if: 
 
 you are eligible; 
 
 you are named on the application; and  
 
 you pay  the  full  required  premium  before  the effective 
date. 
 
For  Trip  Cancellation  and  Interruption  Coverage  to  be  in  effect 
we must   have   received   all   premium   due   prior   to   the   trip 
cancellation.  
 
When does your insurance end? 
 
Your insurance ends on the earliest of: 
 
 the  date your  trip is  cancelled  when  cancelled  prior  to 
your departure date; 
 
 23:59 on your return date; or 
 
 upon your return   to your province   or   territory   of 
residence,  except  in  the  circumstances  outlined  under 
“When will your coverage be automatically extended?”  
 
When will your coverage be automatically extended? 
 
Regardless of your expiry date, coverage will be extended 
provided: 
 
 your entire trip falls within the coverage period; and 
 
 your return is delayed  by  unforeseeable  circumstances 
beyond your control, including the hospitalization as an 
inpatient or medical  condition of you,  (your  spouse or 
your    children if  they  are  travelling  with you) or your 
travelling companion. 
 
If coverage is extended for these reasons, coverage will end on 
the earliest of either: 
 
 your arrival  at your province  of  residence  or  return 
destination based on your travel itinerary; or 
 
 5 days after your scheduled return date; however, if you 
are hospitalized as an inpatient, if medically necessary, 
we will extend insurance for 72 hours from the time you 
are  discharged  but  under  no  circumstances  for  more 
than 3 months from your scheduled return date.  
 
What must you do if you decide to extend your trip? 
 
If you decide to extend your trip you may purchase an extension 
of your coverage  by  contacting your travel  supplier  or Allianz 
Global Assistance:  
 
 if you have not already departed on your trip; or  
 
 if you have already departed on your trip, you have not 
had  a medical  condition during your  trip and you call 
before your scheduled return date. 
 
If you have  already  left  on your trip and  have  had  a medical 
condition during your trip, you may  still  be  eligible  for  an 
extension   of your coverage   by   contacting Allianz   Global 
Assistance before your scheduled return date. The granting of an 
extension  in  this  situation  is  subject  to  the  approval  of Allianz 
Global Assistance.     
 
Any extension of coverage is subject to the following conditions: 
 
 the  total  duration  of your  trip may  not  exceed  30 
consecutive days; 
 
  you are covered by your government health insurance 
plan for the entire duration of the trip, 
 
 you must  pay  the  required  premium  on  or  before your 
original scheduled return date.   
 
Can you obtain a refund? 
 
If you notify us that you are  not  completely  satisfied  with your 
purchased plan within 10 days of the date of issue of this Policy 
of  Insurance  as  indicated  on your Declaration  Page, we will 
provide a full refund if you have not already departed on your trip 
or filed a claim.  
 
Refunds  are  only  available  when Allianz  Global  Assistance 
receives your request for a refund before your departure date. 

 
 
 
6 
Description of Coverage 
 
The following insurance benefits protect you against situations or 
losses  that  result  from  sudden  and  unexpected  conditions  or 
events.  The benefits do not cover conditions or events that, on 
the date of purchase, are either known to you or likely to occur.  
 
Trip Cancellation and Interruption Coverage 
 
Trip  Cancellation  Coverage provides  reimbursement  for  the 
covered  losses you incur  for a trip that  is  cancelled  before your 
departure  date. The  total  amount  paid  for your trip  cancellation 
will not exceed the maximum benefit amount of $20,000.  
 
Trip  Interruption  Coverage reimburses you for covered  losses 
you incur  for trips  that  are  interrupted  or  delayed  after your 
departure  date. The  total  amount  paid  for your trip  interruption 
will not exceed the maximum benefit amount of $20,000. 
 
COVERED REASONS 
 
A  maximum  benefit of  up  to $10,000, is provided  to  cover  the 
losses (identified under ‘Covered Benefits’) which result from the 
cancellation or interruption of your trip due to one of the following 
covered reasons 
 
Medical Conditions and Death 
 
Any serious injury or any unforeseen serious illness occurring to; 
 
 you, or your travelling companion, which is so disabling 
as  to  cause  a  reasonable  person  to  delay,  cancel,  or 
interrupt their trip; 
 
 a family  member that  is  life  threatening  or  requiring 
hospitalization as an inpatient; or 
 
 a family member who is dependent upon your care. 
 
For  Trip  Cancellation  benefits,  a  physical  examination  by  a 
physician must  take  place  within  72  hours  from  when  the 
cancellation  is  made,  and  the physician  must  recommend  in 
writing that your trip be cancelled. 
 
For  Trip  Interruption  benefits,  this  examination  must  take  place 
during your trip,  and  the physician  must  recommend  in  writing 
that your trip be interrupted or delayed. 
 
The death of you, a family member or a travelling companion, if 
the death occurs within 30 days prior to your departure date, or 
during your trip. 
 
Your family  or  friends,  with  whom you were  planning  to  stay  on 
your trip, are unable to accommodate you due to life-threatening 
illness, life-threatening injury or death of one of them. 
 
Pregnancy and Adoption 
 
The   pregnancy of you,   your   spouse, an immediate family 
member or your travelling companion if such a pregnancy: 
 
 has  been  diagnosed  after your trip has  been  booked, 
and your departure is scheduled within 9 weeks before 
or after the expected date of delivery; or 
 the  legal  adoption  of  a  child  by you or your travelling 
companion, when  the  actual  date  the  child  is  to  be 
placed  in your care  is  scheduled  to  take  place  during 
your trip and this date was not known until after the trip 
was booked. 
 
Government Advisories and Visas 
 
A travel  advisory issued  after your  trip has  been  booked  with 
respect  to  travel  to your destination  country  during  all  or  part  of 
your trip. 
 
The  non-issuance  of  a travel  visa  to you, or your  travelling 
companion for    reasons    beyond your or your    travelling 
companion’s control.  The  non-issuance  of  a  travel  visa  due  to 
late  application  is  not  covered.  Non-issuance  of  an  immigration 
or employment visa is not covered. 
 
Terrorism 
An act  of  terrorism committed  by  an  organized  terrorist  group 
(recognized as such by the Canadian Government), occurring in 
the city and country of your destination: 
 within  30  days  of your scheduled departure  date (for  
Trip Cancellation benefits); 
 during your trip (for Trip Interruption benefits).   
Employment and Occupation 
You or your travelling companion: 
 after having been with the same employer for at least 3 
continuous years, are terminated or laid off, through no 
fault of your own, after your effective date of coverage; 
 being required to serve on a jury or served with a court 
order  or  subpoena,  excluding  law  enforcement  officers 
who are required to appear in court; 
 being  summoned  to  service  in  the  case  of  reservists, 
active military, police or fire personnel. 
Delays 
 
If your trip has been delayed due to one of the covered reasons 
listed  under  the  ‘Trip  Delay’  coverage  of  this Policy and  that 
delay results in a loss of more than 50% of the duration of your 
scheduled trip. 
 
OTHER COVERED REASONS 
 
You or a travelling companion: 
 
 being hijacked or quarantined; or 
 
 having your home   made   uninhabitable   by   flood, 
burglary, vandalism or natural disaster; or 
 
  being  directly  involved  in  a  traffic accident while  en 
route to a departure point for a trip; or  
 
 under  Trip  Cancellation  benefit,  being  the  victim  of  an 
indictable  criminal  assault  within  10  days  prior  to your 
departure  date. An  indictable  criminal  assault  inflicted 
by you,   a family   member,   travelling   companion or 
travelling  companion’s  family  member is  not  a  covered 
reason under this insurance. 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
7 
COVERED BENEFITS 
 
Trip Cancellation Benefits (prior to departure) 
 
We will reimburse you for the following covered losses providing 
you cancel your trip prior to your departure date: 
 
 the  forfeited,  published,  non-refundable trip payments 
or deposits incurred as a result of cancellation penalties 
and for which no credits or refunds were issued by the 
supplier; and 
 
 the  additional  reasonable  cost  resulting  from  a  change 
in  the  per-person  occupancy  rate  for prepaid travel 
arrangements   if    a travelling   companion’s   trip is 
cancelled for a covered reason and yours is not. 
 
Trip   Interruption   Benefits   (after   date   and   time   of 
departure) 
 
If your trip is interrupted for a covered reason we will reimburse 
you for the following:  
 
 the   unused   portion   of   forfeited,   published,   non-
refundable trip payments  or  deposits  incurred  as  a 
result  of  cancellation  penalties  and  for  which  no  credit 
was issued by the supplier; 
 
 the  additional  reasonable  cost  resulting  from  a  change 
in  the  per-person  occupancy  rate  for prepaid travel 
arrangements   if    a travelling   companion’s   trip is 
interrupted  for  one  of  the  above  covered  reasons  and 
yours is not; 
 
 reasonable,   additional   accommodation,   meals, and 
transportation  expenses  up  to  $100  per  day  up  to  a 
maximum  of 5 days,  if  a  covered  travelling family 
member or travelling    companion must    remain 
hospitalized as an inpatient; 
 
 reasonable*, additional transportation expenses needed 
to  return  to your  departure  point or  to  travel  from  the 
place your  trip was  interrupted  to  the  place  where you 
can rejoin your trip and the unused portion of any non-
refundable  land,  sea  and  air  arrangements  that  were 
paid as part of your trip; and 
 
 reasonable*,  additional  travel  costs  for you to  reach 
your scheduled destination if you must depart after your 
departure date. 
 
* The  reasonable  amount  of  benefit  paid  to  you  will  not 
exceed  the  cost  of  economy  airfare  by  the  most  cost-
effective  route  on  the  next  available  carrier,  less  any 
refunds paid to you. 
 
CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS 
 
You must   notify the   appropriate   travel   supplier(s)   of your 
cancellation  or  interruption  within  24  hours  of  the  cause  of 
cancellation  or  interruption,  unless your condition,  or  situation 
prevents it, then as soon as reasonably possible. If you do not do 
so, your claim will not be payable. 
 
 
 
 
EXCLUSIONS 
 
1. You are  not  covered  for  conditions  that you are  aware  of 
when you book your   trip, which   might   reasonably   be 
expected to prevent you from travelling as booked. 
 
2. You are  not  covered  for  the medical  condition or  the  death 
of an ailing person when the trip was made to visit or attend 
to that person. 
 
Trip  Cancellation  and  Interruption  Coverage  are  also  subject  to 
the  General  Limitations,  Conditions  and  Exclusions  as  well  as 
the Pre-Existing Conditions Exclusion. 
 
Trip Delay Coverage 
 
COVERED REASONS AND BENEFITS 
 
If your trip is delayed from its scheduled departure time for more 
than 6 hours, we will pay you on a one-time per trip basis, up to 
a per person maximum of $300 per day and a total of 2 days, for 
reasonable,   additional   accommodation,   meals and   travelling 
expenses.  Please  refer  to your Declaration  Page  to  determine 
which coverage you purchased. 
 
Covered reasons for which we provide a Trip Delay benefit are: 
 
 death or an emergency hospitalization as an inpatient of 
you, a   member   of your   immediate   family or your 
travelling companion; 
 
 delays of your common carrier (including bad weather); 
 
 lost or stolen passports, money, or travel documents; 
 
 quarantine; 
 
 unannounced strikes; 
 
 natural disaster;  
 
 civil disorder or unrest; or 
 
 if  you are  hijacked  (whether  or  not  committed  by  an 
organized  terrorist  group  recognized  as  such  by  the 
Canadian Government). 
 
CONDITIONS, LIMITATIONS AND EXCLUSIONS 
 
1. Prepaid expenses  are  not  covered,  unless  as  otherwise 
specified   under   Trip   Cancellation   and   Trip   Interruption 
Coverage. 
 
2. The additional expenses must be incurred by you. 
  
3. The total amount paid for these additional expenses for all 
persons will not exceed the benefit maximum listed on the 
Declaration Page. 
 
Trip  Delay  Coverage  is  also  subject  to  the  General  Limitations, 
Conditions and Exclusions as well as the Pre-Existing Conditions 
Exclusion. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
8 
Emergency Medical and Dental Coverage  
 
COVERED BENEFITS 
 
Emergency  Medical  and  Dental  Coverage  reimburses you for 
eligible expenses if you require emergency medical and/or dental 
care during your trip. This coverage will also cover expenses for 
emergency medical  transportation  back  to your province  of 
normal residence. In the event of injury or illness while on a trip, 
during  the coverage  period, we reimburse you for reasonable 
and  customary  charges for  the  following medically  necessary 
expenses required by you. 
 
Emergency Medical Expenses 
 
We provide coverage up to the policy maximum of $5,000,000 in 
total, for the following: 
 
Emergency  Medical  Treatment  (including  X-rays  and 
lab) 
 
This insurance covers emergency medical care or treatment 
of any medical condition that is acute (onset is sudden and 
unexpected)   and   considered   life   threatening   or,   if   left 
unattended,   could   deteriorate   resulting   in   serious   and 
irreparable harm.  
 
Emergency Dental Treatment (including x-rays and lab) 
 
This  insurance  covers  the  following  dental  expenses  when 
required   as emergency treatment and   ordered   by   or 
received from a licensed dentist: 
 
 if you need  dental treatment to  repair  or  replace your 
natural or permanently attached artificial teeth because 
of an accidental blow to your face, you are covered for 
the emergency dental  expenses you incur  during your 
trip. You are  also  covered  up  to  a  maximum  of  $1,000 
to  continue  necessary treatment after your return  to 
Canada.  However,  this treatment must  be  completed 
within 90 days after the accident.  
 
 if you need emergency treatment to relieve dental pain, 
you are covered  for  the emergency dental  expenses 
you incur  during your trip,  up  to  a  maximum  of  $250, 
and the complete cost of prescription drugs.   
 
Professional Fees 
 
This insurance covers expenses for emergency treatment by 
a    licensed    physiotherapist,    chiropractor,    chiropodist, 
podiatrist   or   osteopath,   to   a   maximum of   $250   per 
profession.  
 
Licensed Private Duty Nurse 
 
This  insurance  covers  the  cost  of  licensed  private  duty 
nursing  services  to  a  maximum  of  $5,000  while you are  an 
inpatient; when pre-approved by Allianz Global Assistance. 
 
Prescription Drugs 
 
This insurance covers the cost of prescription drugs, limited 
to   a   supply   of   30   days,   if   prescribed   because   of   an 
emergency condition. 
 
Medical Appliances 
 
This   insurance   covers   the   cost   of medical   appliances 
including  wheelchair,  braces,  crutches,  walker,  or hospital-
type  beds,  if  ordered  by  a  licensed physician. We will  pay 
the lesser of the rental or the purchase price. 
 
Ambulance/Ground Transport 
 
This insurance covers the cost of local ground transport to a 
medical service provider in an emergency.  
 
Medical Assistance Services 
 
Medical Assistance 
 
If you have  a  medical  problem  or emergency, you must 
contact Allianz  Global  Assistance,  who  will  refer you to  a 
local physician,  dentist, hospital,  medical  facility,  or  other 
appropriate resource. 
 
Medical Consultation and Monitoring 
 
If you are  hospitalized, Allianz  Global  Assistance’s medical 
staff will keep in contact with you and your treating physician 
to   get   information   on   the   care you are   receiving   and 
determine  the  need  for  further  assistance. Allianz  Global 
Assistance will  also  contact your personal physician and 
family at home, if necessary. 
 
Emergency Medical Transportation 
 
We will  arrange  and  pay  for  medical  transportation  services  as 
specified  below,  which  are  required  by you as  a  result  of  an 
injury or illness that  occurs  during  the coverage  period that 
requires transportation to an appropriate medical facility or return 
to your province of residence. 
 
All emergency medical    transportation    services    must    be 
authorized   in   advance   and   organized   by Allianz   Global 
Assistance.  Such  services  that Allianz  Global  Assistance does 
not pre-authorize shall not be covered.   
 
Transportation to an Appropriate Medical Facility 
 
If our consulting physician and the local attending physician 
determine  that  adequate treatment is  not  available  locally 
and  that treatment is medically  necessary, you will  be 
transported to the nearest appropriate medical facility. 
 
Return to your Province of Residence 
 
Once you have  received emergency medical  care and our 
consulting physician determines you are   able   to   and 
recommends  that you return  home, we will  arrange  for you 
to return to your province of residence. 
 
We will  arrange  and  pay,  up  to  the  amount  included  in  the 
overall   policy  maximum,   for   the   following  services and 
expenses to evacuate you to your province of residence: 
 
 the  cost  of  an  economy  class  one-way  ticket  on  a 
commercial flight via the most cost-effective route, less 
any   refunds   from   any   unused   return-trip tickets.   If 
medically  necessary or  required  by  the  airline, we will 
also pay the expenses for a qualified medical attendant 
to accompany you. 

 
 
 
9 
 the cost  of  a  stretcher  fare  on  a  commercial  flight  via 
the   most   cost-effective   route   to your province   of 
residence, if a stretcher is medically necessary. 
 the  cost  of  air  ambulance  transportation  to  the  most 
appropriate  facility  in your province  of  residence,  if  the 
use  of  an  air  ambulance  is  required  and medically 
necessary. 
 
Accommodation & Meals 
 
A maximum benefit of up to $150 per day (up to a total of 10 
days) is  provided  to  cover  hotel  expenses,  meals  and  taxi 
fares,  if you or your travelling  companion,  because  of 
receiving a covered emergency treatment:  
 
 are delayed beyond the initial return date; or  
 have to relocate to receive the medical attention. 
 
Bedside Visits 
 
If you are  travelling  alone  and  will  be  hospitalized  during 
your  trip as  an inpatient for  more  than 3 consecutive  days, 
we will  pay  for  the  cost  of  a  round-trip economy  fare  on  a 
commercial flight via the most cost-effective route, to bring a 
family  member or  a  close  personal  friend  to your bedside. 
We will  also  pay  up  to  $150  per  day  (up  to  a  total  of  10 
days)  for  that  person’s  reasonable  accommodation,  taxi 
fares  and  meals. Verification  from  the  attending physician 
that  the  situation  is  serious  enough  to  warrant  the  visit  will 
be required. 
 
This  benefit  is  subject  to  pre-authorization  and  must  be 
arranged by Allianz Global Assistance. 
 
Repatriation of Remains 
 
In  the  event  of your death  during your trip from  a medical 
condition covered   under   this   insurance,   the   insurance 
covers a maximum benefit of up to $5,000 in total: 
 
 the cost for reasonable and necessary services needed 
for the transport of your remains from the place of death 
to your city of residence; or 
 
 the burial or the cremation of your remains where your 
death occurred. The cost of a burial coffin or urn is not a 
covered expense. 
 
 if  someone  is  legally  required  to  identify your remains, 
this Policy covers the cost of a round-trip economy fare 
on a commercial flight via the most cost-effective route 
for  that  person.  Meals  and  accommodations  for  that 
person  are  covered  up  to  a  maximum  of  $150  per  day 
(up to a maximum of 3 days).  
 
Return of Travelling Companion 
 
If you are   travelling   with   a travelling   companion,   this 
insurance  covers  him  or  her  for  the  extra  cost  (i.e.  transfer 
fees) of a one-way economy air fare on a commercial flight 
via  the  most  cost-effective  route  to  their departure  point,  if 
you must return  to  Canada  because  of  a medical  condition 
covered under this insurance.   
 
This  benefit  is  subject  to  pre-authorization  and  must  be 
arranged by Allianz Global Assistance. 
 
 
Return  of  Children  and  Escort  for  Children  to  their 
Departure Point 
 
If children insured  under  one  of our emergency medical 
insurances  travel  with you or  join you during your trip and 
you are  hospitalized  for  more  than  24  hours  or you must 
return  to  Canada  because  of your emergency medical 
condition covered   under   this   insurance,   this   insurance 
covers: 
 
 the  extra  cost  of  a  one-way  economy  air  fare  on  a 
commercial  flight  via  the  most  cost-effective  route  for 
the return of those children to their departure point; and 
 
 the  cost  of  a  round-trip economy  air  fare  via  the  most 
cost-effective route on a commercial flight for an escort, 
if the airline requires that the children be escorted. 
 
Vehicle Return 
 
If,  as  a  result  of  a  covered  medical emergency, you are 
unable  to  return your vehicle  or your rented  vehicle  to  its 
point  of  origin,  this  insurance  covers  the  reasonable  costs 
up  to $2,000  in total to  return  the vehicle  to your residence 
or  to  the  rental  agency, when  pre-authorized  by Allianz 
Global Assistance. 
 
CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS  
 
1. You must  contact Allianz  Global  Assistance before  seeking 
care. If you do not notify Allianz Global Assistance or if you 
choose  to  receive treatment from  a  service  provider  other 
than  that  suggested  by Allianz  Global  Assistance, you may 
be responsible for 30% of your medical expenses under this 
insurance.  If your medical  condition prevents you from 
calling Allianz Global Assistance before seeking emergency 
treatment, you must call as soon as medically possible.  
 
2. As  an  alternative,  someone  else  (family  member,  friend, 
hospital or physician's office  staff,  etc.)  may  call  on your 
behalf. 
 
3. The medical staff of Allianz Global Assistance must approve 
all  cardiac  procedures,  including  cardiac  catheterization, 
angioplasty and cardiovascular surgery in advance.  
 
4. If your employer  (or  former  employer  if you are  retired) 
provides an extended health insurance plan and: 
 
 if your lifetime maximum coverage is less than $50,000, 
we will not co-ordinate payment;  
 
 if your lifetime   maximum   coverage   is   more   than 
$50,000, we will co-ordinate payment only in excess of 
$50,000 in  accordance  with  the  coordinating  coverage 
guidelines  issued  by  the  Canadian  Life  and  Health 
Insurance Association. 
 
EXCLUSIONS 
 
Coverage is not provided for: 
 
1. Any treatments, services, supplies, or charges we determine 
are  non-emergent  or  can  be  reasonably  delayed  until your 
return to your province or territory of residence; 
 
2. Any treatment received  in  unlicensed  facilities  or  given  by 
unlicensed  health  care  providers,  or  given  by  a family 

 
 
 
10 
member or   a travelling   companion,   whether   or   not   a 
licensed provider; 
 
3. Regular care of a chronic condition;  
 
4. Any treatment received  if  the  purpose  of  the  travel  is  to 
receive medical care, medication or treatment; 
 
5. Any medical condition for which it was reasonable to expect 
treatment or hospitalization during your trip; 
 
6. Any  condition  for  which you had  symptoms  before your 
effective  date that  would  have  caused  a  prudent  person  to 
seek    diagnosis    or treatment (including emergency 
treatment); 
 
7. Any  recurrence  or  complication  of  any medical  condition 
following  medical treatment during your trip where Allianz 
Global   Assistance determined   and   recommended you 
should return home and you chose not to do so; 
 
8. Any  cardiac  catheterization,  angioplasty,  or  cardiovascular 
surgery   unless   approved   in   advance  by Allianz   Global 
Assistance; 
 
9. Treatment for   any medical   condition for   which   future 
investigation  or treatment was  planned  before  the effective 
date (other than routine monitoring); 
 
10. Treatment or  surgery  for  a  specific  condition,  or  a  related 
condition, which: 
 
 had  caused your physician to  advise you not  to  travel; 
or 
 
 you contracted  in  a  country  during your trip when, 
before your effective date, a travel advisory was issued 
advising Canadians not to travel to that country, region, 
or city. 
 
Emergency  Medical  and  Dental  coverage  is  also  subject  to  the 
General  Limitations,  Conditions  and  Exclusions,  as  well  as  the 
Pre-Existing Condition Exclusion 
 
Baggage Coverage  
 
COVERED REASONS AND BENEFITS 
 
This   insurance   covers   loss,   damage or   theft   of baggage 
occurring on a covered trip.  
 
We will reimburse you up to the maximum of $1,000 for the loss, 
damage  or  theft  of  one  or  more  items  of baggage occurring  on 
your covered trip.  
 
Please   refer   to your Declaration   Page to   determine   which 
coverage you purchased. 
 
CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS 
 
1.   You must notify the appropriate local authorities at the place 
the   loss   occurred   and   inform   them   of   the   value   and 
description  of your  baggage within  24  hours  after  the  loss.  
You must  file  written  proof  of  loss  with us within  90  days 
from  the  date  of your loss.    If  applicable  law  provides  for  a 
longer period, you must submit your claim within the longer 
period provided for by law. 
 
       You must  attach  copies  of  airline,  cruise  line  or common 
carrier claims  forms,  original  police  reports,  an  itemization 
and description of lost items and their estimated value, and 
all  receipts,  credit  card  statements,  cancelled  cheques, 
photos,  or  other  appropriate  documentation  as  may  be 
required. 
 
2.   All benefits payable to you under this coverage are in excess 
of any payments provided by a common carrier or any other 
insurance you have. 
 
3.    The insurance will pay the lesser of: 
 
 the actual purchase price of a similar item;  
 
 the  actual  cash  value  of  the  item  at  the  time  of  loss, 
which  includes  deduction  for  depreciation  (for  items 
without receipts, the program will pay up to 75% of the 
determined depreciated value); or 
 
 the cost to repair or replace the item. 
 
4. You must  have  taken  all  reasonable  measures  to  protect, 
save and/or recover your baggage. 
 
5. Baggage items valued at $500 or more, we will only provide 
you with reimbursement if you submit receipts. 
 
6. If  an  item  is  damaged  and we pay  a  benefit  hereunder  to 
replace the item, the damaged item becomes ours. 
 
EXCLUSIONS 
 
The following baggage, property or losses are not covered: 
 
1. Animals; 
 
2. Automobiles and equipment, motorcycles, scooters, mopeds 
and motors; 
 
3. Bicycles,  skis,  snowboards  (except  when  checked  with  a 
common carrier); 
 
4. Aircraft, boats or any other vehicles or conveyances; 
 
5. Eyeglasses,   sunglasses,   contact   lenses,   hearing   aids, 
artificial teeth and limbs; 
 
6. Tickets,  keys,  money,  securities,  bullion,  stamps,  credit 
cards, documents (travel or otherwise) and deeds; 
 
7. Property   shipped   as freight   or   shipped   prior   to your 
departure date; 
 
8. Rugs or carpets of any type; 
 
9. Perishables, medicines, perfumes, cosmetics and 
consumables; 
 
10. Baggage or personal effects that are unaccompanied or left 
unattended in a public place. 
 
11. Property  used  in  trade, business  or  for  the  production  of 
income; 
 
12. Antiques or collectors items; 
 

 
 
 
11 
13. Accidental loss,  theft  or  damage  to baggage or  personal 
effects  left  unattended,  unsecured  and  unlocked  in your 
accommodation  or  the  motor  vehicle  in  which you are 
travelling; or 
 
14. Damage to the property resulting from defective materials or 
workmanship,    ordinary    wear    and    tear,    and    normal 
deterioration. 
 
Baggage Coverage  is  also  subject  to  the  General  Limitations, 
Conditions and Exclusions. 
 
Baggage Delay Coverage  
 
COVERED REASONS AND BENEFITS 
 
If your personal baggage is delayed or misdirected for at least 12 
hours by a common carrier, we will reimburse you up to $200 for 
the reasonable cost to purchase essential items. 
 
Please   refer to your Declaration   Page to   determine   which 
coverage you purchased.  
 
CONDITIONS, LIMITATION AND EXCLUSIONS 
 
1. Verification of the delay by the common carrier and receipts 
for the emergency purchases must accompany any claim. 
 
2. Purchases must be made within 36 hours of your arrival at 
your destination. 
 
3. The costs of items purchased under this benefit will reduce 
the maximum amount payable under the Baggage Coverage 
benefit, if it is later determined that your personal baggage 
has been lost, stolen or damaged. 
 
Baggage Delay Coverage is also subject to the General 
Limitations, Conditions and Exclusions. 
 
24-Hour Emergency Travel Assistance Services   
 
Travel Document and Ticket Replacement Assistance 
 
If your passport or other travel documents are lost or stolen, we 
will   provide you with   information   and   assistance   to   obtain 
replacing documents. We will also help you to replace lost airline 
and other travel tickets and assist you in obtaining money for this 
purpose. These funds will come from you, your family or friends. 
We will make all necessary arrangements for you and assist you 
to return home if your trip is interrupted.  
 
Legal Assistance 
 
If you have   legal   issues   while   travelling, our assistance 
coordinators will help you find a local legal advisor. If you require 
the  posting  of  bail  or  immediate  payment of  legal  fees, we will 
help arrange a cash transfer from your family or friends. 
 
Emergency Cash Transfer 
 
If your cash or traveller’s cheques are lost or stolen, or if you 
need funds for the immediate payment of unexpected expenses, 
we will help arrange for emergency cash (in currency, traveller’s 
cheques or any other form acceptable to us) to be transmitted to 
you in  a  timely  fashion.  These  funds  will  come  from you, your 
family  or  friends. Our assistance  coordinators  will  make  all  the 
necessary arrangements for you. 
Emergency Message Center 
 
In an emergency, call Allianz Global Assistance, identify yourself 
by  name  and your Policy number,  and  give  the  assistance 
coordinator your message. We will  make  at  least 3 attempts  in 
24 hours to reach your requested party, and we will provide you 
with  an  update  on  the  results  of our efforts  to  deliver  the 
message. We are not responsible for delivery of a message if the 
recipient  cannot  be  reached.  This  service  can  be  used  for trips 
anywhere in the world. 
 
General Conditions, Limitations and 
Exclusions 
 
Your insurance  coverage  is  subject  to  the  terms  set  out  as 
follows in this document. 
 
GENERAL CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS 
 
1. All  premiums,  benefit  maximums  and  benefit  payments  are 
stated  in  Canadian  dollars  unless  otherwise  specified.    At 
our option, we may pay a claim for benefits in the currency 
where the loss occurred or in Canadian currency. 
 
2. You and we agree that all disputes, controversies or claims 
arising under this Policy or otherwise in connection with this 
Policy, whether of law or fact and of any nature whatsoever 
(including  but  not  limited  to  all  disputes  or  controversies 
related  to  determinations  made  under  the Policy)  shall  be 
decided  by  arbitration  which  shall  be  binding  and  without 
recourse to the courts or to an appeal. This arbitration shall 
be  before  a  single  arbitrator  in  the  Canadian  province  or 
territory  in  which  this Policy was  issued  under  the  rules 
embodied  in  the  arbitration  legislation  of  that  province  or 
territory. In the absence of such legislation, the Commercial 
Arbitration   Act,   R.S.C.   1998,   C.17   (second   supp.),   as 
amended shall apply. In any event, any action or arbitration 
proceeding against us for the recovery of a claim under this 
Policy shall not be commenced more than one year after the 
occurrence,  which  gives  rise  to  the  claim.  If,  however,  this 
limitation  is  invalid  according  to  the  laws  of  the  province  or 
territory where this Policy was issued, you must commence 
your action or arbitration proceeding within the shortest time 
permitted by the laws of that province or territory. In addition 
you, your heirs  and  assigns  consent  to  the  venue  of  any 
action  or  arbitration  being  only  in  the  province  or  territory 
where  the Policy was  issued  and  at  a  venue we and/or 
Allianz Global Assistance choose. 
 
3. No  agent  or  other  person  has  authority  to  accept  or  make 
representations  of  information  or  alter,  modify  or  waive  any 
of the provisions of this Policy. 
4. You must  submit  claims  to Allianz  Global  Assistance within 
90  days  from  date  of  loss.  If  applicable  law  provides  for  a 
longer period, you must submit your claim within the longer 
period provided for by law.  
For your claim  to  be  valid, you must  provide all  of  the 
documents we require to support your claim. 
5. We may  void  this Policy in  the  case  of  fraud  or  attempted 
fraud   by you or   if you conceal   or   misrepresent   any 
circumstance  or  fact  that  is  material.  The  application  for 
insurance  must  be  completed  fully  and  correctly,  failing 
which we may, at our option, void all your coverage. 

 
 
 
12 
6. You must  repay  to us amounts  paid  or  authorized  for 
payment  on your behalf,  if we determine  the  amount  is  not 
payable under this insurance. 
7. We may  require  a physician(s)  of our choice  to  physically 
examine you as often as reasonably needed while a claim is 
pending. We may  also  require  an  autopsy  in  the  case  of 
death,   where   law   does   not   forbid  it. We will   bear   all 
necessary costs.  
8. References to your age refer to your age on the date you 
applied for insurance. 
9. If you incur  losses  covered  by  this  insurance  because  of  a 
third party, we may take legal action against that party at our 
expense. We have  full  rights  of  subrogation. You agree  to 
allow us to  fully  assert our right to  subrogation  and  to 
cooperate  fully  with us by  delivering  such  documents. You 
agree  to  do  nothing  that  would  prejudice our rights  to 
recover funds from any source. 
10. We, Allianz  Global  Assistance and our agents  are  not 
responsible  for  the  availability,  quality  or  outcome  of  any 
medical treatment or  of  any  medical  transportation,  or your 
failure to obtain medical treatment. 
11. All  benefit  payments  under  this Policy are  in  excess  of 
similar insurance benefits payable by another insurer. If you 
are eligible under more than one insurance plan for benefits, 
which   are   similar   to   those   for   which you are   insured 
hereunder,  the  total  benefits  paid  to you by  all  insurers 
cannot exceed your actual covered losses.  
12. Notice  of  Statutory  Conditions - Notwithstanding  any  other 
provision  herein  contained,  this  contract  is  subject  to  the 
statutory   conditions   in   the Insurance   Act respecting 
contracts  of accident insurance.  This  condition  does  not 
apply to the province of Quebec. 
13. If a covered loss incurred is either directly or indirectly as the 
result  of  an “Act  of  Terrorism”, payment for a covered  loss 
will be subject to the following terms and conditions: 
 Trip  Cancellation  and  Trip  Interruption  benefits  will  be 
paid  to  a  maximum  of  100%  of  the  sum  insured. 
Benefits  payable  for  Trip  Cancellation  and  Interruption 
losses  will  be  directly  reduced  by  the  value  of  any 
alternate or replacement benefits or travel options given 
or offered by the airlines, tour or travel operators, cruise 
or   travel   suppliers   as   replacement,   even   if   the 
alternative  or  replacement  arrangements  are  declined 
by you and not used. 
 
 All  other  benefits  insured  under  this Policy will  be  paid 
at 100% of the Sum Insured. 
 
 If  the  total  amount  claimed  under  this  and  all policies 
issued by  us  for  Trip  Cancellation and  Trip  Interruption 
coverage  (in respect  of  the  same  terrorist  incident,  or 
series  of  terrorist  incidents  occurring  within  a  72  hour 
period),  exceeds  $20,000,000,  the  amount  payable  will 
be  prorated  among  all  eligible  claimants.  The  amount 
paid will not exceed $20,000,000 in the aggregate. 
 
PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS EXCLUSION  
 
This   insurance   does   not   pay   for   any   expenses 
incurred directly or indirectly as a result of: 
 
1. Your medical condition or related condition, if at any time in 
the   90   days   before your effective   date, your medical 
condition or related condition has not been stable. 
 
2. Your heart condition, if at any time in the 90 days before you 
depart on your trip:  
 
 any heart condition has not been stable; or 
 
 you have  taken  nitro-glycerine  more  than  once  per 
week specifically for the relief of angina pain. 
 
3. Your lung condition, if at any time in the 90 days before you 
depart on your trip:  
 
 any lung condition has not been stable; or 
 
 you have been treated with home oxygen or taken oral 
steroids   (prednisone   or prednisolone)   for   any   lung 
condition. 
 
4. Any medical  condition for  which  future  investigation  or 
treatment was planned before the effective date (other than 
routine monitoring). 
 
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS 
 
These  exclusions  apply  to  all  program  benefits  and  services. 
This insurance provides no payment for any loss arising directly 
or indirectly out of or as a result of the following: 
 
1. Intentionally self-inflicted harm, suicide or attempted suicide 
(whether sane or insane); 
 
2. Except  as  specifically  provided  for  in  the  Trip  Cancellation 
and  Interruption  benefit  under  Pregnancy  and  Adoption, 
routine  pre-natal  care,  fertility treatments, elective  abortion, 
a   child   born   during your trip,   complications   of your 
pregnancy  when  they  occur  in  the  nine 9 weeks  before  or 
after the expected date of delivery; 
 
3. Mental,  nervous  or  emotional  disorders that  do  not  require 
immediate hospitalization; 
 
4. Abuse    of    any    medication    or    non-compliance    with  
prescribed medical treatment or therapy; 
 
5. Any injury or accident occurring  while you are  under  the 
influence  of  illicit  drugs  or  alcohol  (where  the  concentration 
of alcohol in your blood exceeds 80 milligrams of alcohol in 
100 millilitres  of  blood)  or  when you illustrate  a  visible 
impairment  due  to  alcohol  or  illicit  drugs  and  any  chronic 
illness  or  hospitalization  related  to,  or  exacerbated  by,  the 
habitual use of alcohol or illicit drugs; 
 
6. War  (whether  declared  or  undeclared),  acts  of  war,  military 
duty,  civil  disorder  or  unrest; terrorism or act  of  terrorism 
(unless specifically covered); 
 
7. Amateur  or professional sports,  or  other  athletic  activities, 
which  are  organized  and/or  sanctioned.  Full-contact  bodily 
sports,     skydiving,     hang     gliding,     bungee     jumping, 
parachuting, mountain  climbing (where  ropes  or  guides  are 
normally    used),    caving,    heli-skiing,    any    skiing    or 
snowboarding  outside  marked  trails,  any  motorized  race  or 
motorized  speed  contest.  This  exclusion  does  not  include:  
amateur   athletic   activities,   which   are   non-contact   and 

 
 
 
13 
engaged   in   by   an   insured   person   solely   for   leisure, 
recreational, entertainment or fitness purposes; 
 
8. Scuba  diving,  unless you hold  a  basic  SCUBA  designation 
from  a  certified  school  or  other  licensing  body  or you are 
accompanied  by  a  dive  master  or  are  diving  in  water  not 
deeper than 10 metres; 
 
9. Nuclear reaction, radiation or radioactive contamination; 
 
10. Biological or chemical contamination; 
 
11. Seepage, pollution or contamination;  
 
12. Epidemic or pandemic; 
 
13. Financial   collapse   or   default   of   any   transport,   tour   or 
accommodation provider and/or any other service providers; 
 
14. Any unlawful  acts  committed  by you, family  members,  or 
travelling companions, whether they are insured or not; 
 
15. Prohibition or regulation by any government which interferes 
with your trip, 
 
16. Cosmetic or any other elective surgery; 
 
17. Organ harvesting surgery; 
 
18. Air  travel  except  while you are  riding,  boarding  or  alighting 
as  a  ticketed  passenger  on  a  certified  passenger  aircraft 
provided  by  a  regularly  scheduled  airline  on  a  regularly 
scheduled trip or charter; 
 
19. Any medical  condition or  related  condition  when you knew 
prior to your trip that you would require or seek treatment or 
surgery for that condition;  
 
20. Your travel   to   a  country,   region   or   city for   which   the 
Canadian government has issued a travel advisory in writing 
prior your departure date or;  
 
21. Your travel  to  a sanctioned country  for  any  business  or 
activity  to  the  extent  that  such  cover  would  violate  any 
applicable   national   economic   or   trade sanction law   or 
regulations. 
 
Claim Filing Procedures 
 
Please   contact Allianz   Global   Assistance at   the   phone 
number    listed    on    your    Declaration    Page or    visit 
www.allianzassistanceclaims.ca to obtain a claim form. 
 
All  benefits  will  be  paid  in  Canadian  dollars  unless  otherwise 
stated.  If  currency  conversion  is  necessary, we will  use  the 
exchange rate on the date the last service was rendered to you.   
This insurance will not pay for any interest. 
 
Information to Submit When Filing a Claim 
As  a  condition  to  the  payment  of  benefits  under  this  insurance, 
we will  require  certain  information  from you if you need  to file  a 
claim.  This documentation  will  include, at  a  minimum  and is  not 
limited to, the following: 
 
General Documentation Requirements  
 Original receipts, invoices and itemized bills for all expenses. 
 The  fully completed  claim  form  supplied  to you by Allianz 
Global Assistance. 
 Proof of departure from your province of residence. 
 
You must  submit  all  claims  to Allianz  Global  Assistance 
within  90  days  from  date  of  loss.  Failure  to  complete  the 
required  claim and authorization  form  in  full  will  delay  the 
assessment of your claim. 
 
Trip Cancellation, Interruption and Delay Claims 
General documentation requirements and the following:  
1. Any  appropriate  documentation  that  officially  explains  the 
cause  of your trip cancellation  or  interruption.  The  report  of 
your physical    examination    (if    applicable),    and    any 
explanation  of  diagnosis  along  with  original  itemized  bills, 
receipts, and proof of other insurance payments. 
2. Original   unused   tickets,   copies   of   invoices,   proof of 
payments,  and  other  documents  that  substantiate  the  cost 
or occurrence of the trip cancellation or interruption. 
 
3. Documentation    of    refunds    received    from    the    travel 
supplier(s) and/or common carrier(s). 
 
4. Copy of the supplier’s literature that describes penalties. 
 
5. A  letter  from  the  tour  operator  or  an  itemized  bill  from  the 
travel  agent  stating  the  non-refundable  amounts  of  the trip 
costs. 
 
Emergency Medical and Dental Claims 
General documentation requirements and the following:   
1. Any   explanation   of   diagnosis   along   with your original 
itemized   bills,   receipts,   and   proof   of   other   insurance 
payment(s).  
 
2. For accidental dental  expenses, we require  proof  of  the 
accident. 
 
Baggage Insurance Claims 
General documentation requirements and the following: 
1. Original claim  determination  from  the common carrier,  if 
applicable. 
 
2. Original police report or other report from local authorities. 
 
3. Original receipts and list of stolen, lost or damaged items. 
 
4. Statement  of  loss  providing  amount  of  loss,  date,  time  and 
cause of loss. 
 
Baggage Delay Claims 
General documentation requirements and the following: 
 
1. Written   proof   from   the common carrier that   personal 
baggage was delayed or misdirected for at least 12 hours. 
 
Questions? 
 
Let Us Know  
  
If you have  any  questions  or  concerns  about our products, 
services, your Policy, or claim please feel free to contact Allianz 
Global Assistance anytime: 
 
Toll Free: 1-866-520-8823 
Collect: 1-519-742-9013 
Email: questions@allianz-assistance.ca 
 

 
 
 
14 
Escalate Your Concern  
 
If you would like to escalate your concern please submit a written 
appeal with any new information or new documentation that you 
would like us to consider. 
 
Contact Details: 
 
By Mail:   Appeals Department             
P.O. Box 277 
Waterloo, ON 
N2J 4A4 
 
Email:    Appeals@allianz-assistance.ca 
Fax:   1-519-742-9471 
Attention: Appeals Department 
 
Contact the Ombuds Office   
 
If you are not satisfied with the outcomes of the previous steps, 
you may  request  additional  consideration  of your concern  in 
writing  to  the  Ombuds  Office.    Please  note,  the  Ombuds  Office 
will only review concerns that have gone through the appropriate 
steps  above  so you will  want  to  indicate with  whom you have 
already spoken with.  
 
By mail:  Ombuds Office  
The Co-operators Group Limited  
130 Macdonell Street, Box 3608   
Guelph, ON N1H 6P8  
  
E-mail:    Ombuds@cooperators.ca  
Phone:    1-877-720-6733  
Fax:   1-519-823-9944  
  
After  the  Ombuds  Office’s  review, you will  receive  a  written 
response,  except  in  the  case where  a simple  concern  can  be 
resolved over  the  phone.  Most  investigations  are  completed 
within  30  business  days  of  receiving your complaint  and  all 
supporting  documentation.  If  this  deadline  cannot  be  met, you 
will be contacted as to why extra time is required and when you 
can expect a response.  
 
The written response from the Ombuds Office is considered the 
company’s  final  position.  Unless you present  any  new  and 
relevant  information  that  was  not  previously  reviewed, your 
concern will not be reopened.  
 
External Recourse Options  
 
If we have  not  been  able  to  resolve your concerns  to your 
satisfaction, and you wish to pursue the matter further, you may 
contact  the  OmbudService  for  Life  &  Health  Insurance  (OLHI). 
OLHI   is   an   independent   service   that   offers   recourse   to 
consumers who have not been able to resolve their complaint by 
dealing  with  their  insurance  company.  The  OmbudService  may 
be   reached   at   1-888-295-8112   or   through   their   website   at 
www.OLHI.ca.  
 
Note: You must follow the company’s Complaint Resolution 
Process before OLHI will become involved.  
 
For  Quebec  clients: if you are  not  satisfied  with  how your 
concern was handled, or the results of our investigation, the law 
gives you the  right  to  request,  in  writing,  that  a  copy  of your 
concern file be transferred to the Autorité des marches financiers 
(AMF).  You can reach the AMF by calling 1-877-525-0337 or by 
email at renseignement-consommateur@lautorite.qc.ca 
The Financial Consumer Agency of Canada  
 
The  Financial  Consumer  Agency  of  Canada  (FCAC)  provides 
consumers   with   accurate   and   objective   information   about 
financial  products  and  services,  and  informs  Canadians  of  their 
rights and responsibilities when dealing with financial institutions. 
FCAC   also   ensures   compliance   with   the   federal   consumer 
protection  laws  that  apply  to  banks  and  federally  incorporated 
trust, loan and insurance companies.  
 
Travel Insurance Personal Information Notice 
 
CUMIS General Insurance Company (the “insurer”) and the 
insurer’s insurance administrator, Allianz Global Assistance, and 
the insurer’s agents, representatives and reinsurers (for the 
purpose of this Personal Information Notice collectively “we” “us” 
and “our”) require personal information including: 
 
 details about you including your name, date of birth, 
address, telephone numbers, e-mail address, employer, 
and other identification 
 medical records and information about you 
 records that reflect your business dealings with and 
through us 
 
This personal information is collected for the following insurance 
purposes when offering and providing insurance and related 
services: 
 To identify and communicate with you 
 To consider any application for insurance  
 If approved, to issue a Certificate or Policy of insurance 
 To administer insurance and related benefits 
 To evaluate insurance risk, manage and coordinate 
claims, re-price medical expenses and negotiate 
payment of claims expenses; 
 To investigate claims and to determine eligibility for 
insurance benefits 
 To provide assistance services  
 For fraud prevention and debt collection purposes  
 As required or permitted by law. 
 
We only collect personal information necessary for insurance 
purposes from individuals who apply for insurance, from 
Certificate or Policy holders, insureds and claimants. In some 
cases we also collect personal information from members of a 
Certificate or Policy holder’s, insured’s or claimant’s family or 
their friends when they are unable, for medical or other reasons, 
to communicate directly with us. We also collect and disclose 
information for the insurance purposes from, to and with, third 
parties such as, but not necessarily limited to, health care 
practitioners and facilities in Canada and abroad, government 
and private health insurers and family members and friends of 
the insured, Certificate or Policy holder or claimant.  We may 
also use and disclose information from our existing files for the 
insurance purposes. Our employees who require this information 
for the purposes of their duties will have access to this file. 
 
Upon your request and authorization, we may also disclose this 
information to other persons.  
 
From time to time, and if permitted by applicable law, we may 
also collect, use or disclose personal information in order to offer 
additional or upgraded products and services (the “optional 
purposes”).   
 
When an individual applies for, purchases, or is covered by one 
of our insurance policies or submits a claim for insurance 

 
 
 
15 
benefits, he or she is presumed to consent to the personal 
information practices described in this notice. If an individual 
does not wish to have their personal information used for the 
optional purposes they need only notify Allianz Global 
Assistance. A person may decline to have their information 
collected, used or disclosed for the insurance purposes but in 
that instance we will likely be unable to provide insurance and 
related services.   
 
Personal information is maintained in the Certificate or Policy 
holder’s, insured’s or claimant’s file that we establish and 
maintain in the offices of Allianz Global Assistance. In some 
instances we may additionally maintain or communicate or 
transfer information to health care and other service providers 
located outside of Canada. As a result, personal information may 
be accessible to regulatory authorities in accordance with the law 
of these other jurisdictions. For information about how to obtain 
access to written information about our policies and procedures 
with respect to service providers outside of Canada, please 
contact the Privacy Officer at privacy@allianz-assistance.ca. 
 
We will retain the personal information we collect for a specified 
period of time and in a storage method appropriate with legal 
and our internal corporate requirements. Personal information 
will be securely destroyed following the expiration of the 
appropriate retention period. 
 
Individuals have a right to request to access or correct personal 
information we have on file by contacting the Privacy Officer at 
privacy@allianz-assistance.ca or by writing to:  
 
Privacy Officer 
Allianz Global Assistance 
4273 King Street East 
Kitchener, ON   
N2P 2E9 
 
For   a   complete   copy   of   our   Privacy   Policy   please   visit 
www.allianz-assistance.ca. 